do not invest in another course until
you listen to this episode hi my name is
Brock Johnson and my name is chalene
Johnson and in today's episode we're
going to talk to you about the things
that you need to know and think about
before buying another course or
membership
so Mom over the years you've taken tons
of courses you and I have both created
tons of courses how do you know which
course to invest in how do you know
which one's right for you well I think
the biggest mistake that I made
initially was I would just see that
someone else was doing a course and I'd
be like oh that's what I need to do like
I need to start a podcast I need to
write a book and so the biggest mistake
I made at first was just taking courses
because other people were taking them
and not understanding
that there's an order
in which you need to learn to do things
when you're building a business and if
you just do what everyone else is doing
you're gonna do things out of order you
need a foundation first so I think the
first step is to figure out like what's
the thing that I need next like what's
the thing that's going to move the
needle not what do I want to do
eventually is it time for me to start a
podcast is it time for me to learn
Facebook advertising when I don't even
have any idea what it is I want to sell
how might you figure out what
foundational piece you need next or how
might you figure out do I need a podcast
or do I need Facebook ads well not like
I'm trying to do a Shameless plug for
marketing impact Academy but like you
know that's the reason why I created
marketing impact Academy because it's
hard you've got to do your research and
when you do your research you're going
to come across stuff that's very
compelling and it's going to make you
feel like oh I definitely need to do
this first I would ask other experts I
would ask unbiased experts someone who's
not doesn't sell that course don't even
tell them who whose course it is you're
thinking about you say like listen based
on where you are today what do I need to
learn next like what do I need to master
because I think you're it's a shortcut
to buy a course or a membership right
like you're we both know you save time
and money even though you might feel
like you can't afford it you really
can't afford not to if you if you buy it
in or invest in the right order so ask
someone who is unbiased like you know be
honest should I take this course in how
to build a course or should I take this
course in how to start a podcast or how
to grow my email list yeah so let's say
that you figured it out and the thing
that you need right now is how to build
your email list and you find a dozen or
so courses different prices that would
claim to teach how to build an email
list what kind of process would you
follow or what would you recommend
looking for to differentiate between
them is there anything that you should
like vet or make sure to double check or
investing in one of these courses what
would you say okay so first I would have
a list of the things that I know will
help me to learn quickly so the person's
style of teaching I need things to be
very brief very specific I need some
analogies I want short lessons I want
lessons I can just listen to but that I
could also read like a transcript that
would be important to me other people
want screen flows and they want like you
know long slow
explanations it it's a style you know
what I mean like I personally found
Brian Tracy like his style of teaching
worked for me and other people are like
I would fall asleep he would just would
not work for them there are other people
I think that are like they need more
hype more motivation I I didn't need
that I'm like give me the bullet points
so that that's first is know your
learning style second is you need to
know if that person can really deliver
on their promises there's so many people
out there who are teaching courses who
have no business
teaching that course I mean they don't
even have the success that they're
trying to help other people accomplish I
mean uh recently that said there's a lot
of business coaches who don't even have
a business there's a lot of relationship
coaches who are married there's a lot
like there's a lot of that on social
media nowadays yeah there's like money
mindset a friend of mine had a money
mindset coach who was broke borrowing
money from them sleeping on her couch
and trying to sell people a course on
money mindset I'm like you might want to
take one yourself sister and you know
I've heard people say like should I look
at the success rate of their students
and I say no just because somebody
wasn't successful in someone else's
course might have nothing to do with the
course creator there's a lot of people
who are just course Junkies
right there like course connoisseurs
they just go to course after court
because they think if they buy a course
or join a membership or pay for a
mentorship like things are just going to
happen for them like you gotta freaking
take action so I think you need to be
very honest with like what do you need
why does this person's style is there a
money back guarantee I think that's
important yeah what if you are that
person who is a course junkie or a a
course connoisseur and you're going to
just like I buy courses and courses and
courses and my problem is chalene I
never finished them and I never really
take action but I'm thinking about
buying another course what do you
recommend for that person what should
they do how should they change things
first of all you have to be
you have to be self-aware you have to
know that that's what you're doing you
know if you're a course jumper you know
that you just keep buying course after
course after course and you're going to
get to a point where you're really
frustrated with yourself you feel like
am I doing something wrong and the
answer is yes what you're not doing is
implementing I would suggest that you
implement what you're learning before
you move on to the next lesson in
whatever course or membership it is that
you've invested in if you're not willing
to do that then you literally have to
cut your credit card and stop investing
in courses because you're wasting time
you are wasting money if you implement
that's an experiment and when you
experiment you'll learn from it that
gives you that like okay I did this
wrong but now I know what I need to do
differently it also gives you confidence
yeah I'd also say like going back to
your point about knowing what works for
you there are differences between
courses and coaches and memberships so
the course is oftentimes something that
is self-paced it's like you you purchase
it and here's your access to the course
and you can kind of go through it at
your own and if you're someone who
struggles to finish those maybe you need
more accountability maybe you need
something that is a 12-week program and
so there's a definitive start and end to
it and so kind of figuring out what's
the common thread besides yourself in
these unfinished whatever that's a good
point yeah and so if maybe the Common
Thread is that they just give you all
the information all at once and you're
up to your own devices to figure it out
maybe you need a different kind of
course maybe you need a membership maybe
you need a coach who can guide you
through or hold you accountable just
figuring out like what that problem is
for you specifically I need
accountability so like whenever I paid
for a course or even would go to Let's
like a live seminar I always pay for the
VIP experience because I know then like
I don't know there's something about
like being in the front row and being
able to ask questions if a course or
membership offers like a paid option
where like you have someone who's
keeping you accountable I'm gonna do
that I just know myself I have ADHD and
I will jump into the next shiny thing so
I think that's really important I also
think to your point there are certain
types of content that you shouldn't buy
a course for it because
it changes so fast I mean personally I
would not buy a YouTube course yeah most
social media related topics I would not
recommend a great buying a course
marketing I feel like is oftentimes
different than a course yeah as
marketing oftentimes has to do with
psychology and bigger business
principles and Foundations and systems
which don't change as often but no if
you're buying a course which when we say
course we're oftentimes referring to
like a stagnant e-course you you're
purchasing basically like a playlist of
videos and the challenge that we have
personally even noticed with creating
some of those ourselves is that you
create it and then when it's something
relating to let's say Instagram's
algorithm by the time you actually
finish building the site it's changed
now the algorithm is different and the
course is outdated and then yeah you
either have to update it or make a new
course and so I think that's a great
point of considering hey is this a topic
that might be better suited with a coach
a course or a like an ongoing
reoccurring membership I think most
social media is an example something I
would do a membership for or already
hire a coach that's why we insta Club
Hub which is our membership program
originally I had created a Instagram
course but it became the bane of my
existence because people would finish
the course and then they wouldn't go
back in to see that we were updating it
and they'd be like these techniques
aren't working we're like well when did
you watch that content and they're like
oh six months ago well yeah it's changed
so that's when we realized we're like
okay it changes so often number one one
person can't do it we need a membership
so it's like people can just log in that
week that month when we go live and
teach and and learn like okay here are
the things you need to understand now
and it saves people a lot of time and
money I think social media is a big
example of that I agree most business
foundational pieces most marketing is
it's tried and true you know a lot of it
email marketing even I think most of
that's trying to they're like subtle
nuances but I would look to see if even
if the person who's created the course
says oh we regularly update it ask them
how often ask for proof of how often
they update it okay so let's say
someone's watching this and they're like
you know from everything I've heard I
think I'm ready to buy that next course
I think I'm ready to swipe the credit
card what would be your your piece of
advice for them or your recommendation
for them maybe before or right after
what do you think what do you say to
that first go slow we are guilty of this
too we open and close registration a lot
of times like for the marketing impact
Academy as an example and so someone
might be like oh I have to do this it's
never going to come around again most of
the time if you're patient that course
will come around again maybe not at that
same price so really make sure you've
answered that you're not responding to
what's that word impulse right like
answer the questions that we've laid out
for you in this video before you spend
that money your money is so important
and the order in which you invest in
your business and yourself in your
education it matters the order freaking
matters I wasted hundreds of thousands
of dollars no joke the first year in
things that were very valuable but out
of order
I would also suggest that you ask
yourself like okay do I have other
things that I haven't finished yeah
that's what I was going to say is my
first tip was going to be put it in your
cart and then if you have the time if
like the it's not a sale that's closing
let it sit in your cart for for 24 hours
at least and just think about it and
come back to it 24 hours later because
oftentimes you're just like laying in
bed one night and you saw an Instagram
story pop up and you're excited yeah um
and I know what we're saying a lot right
now might be like contrary to what
marketers want us to be saying because
obviously like as marketers we want you
to buy it now but as entrepreneurs
trying to give you advice as people who
are trying to help you further your
business in your career think about do I
really need this or like you said is an
Impulse is it something that I just have
fomo because I see other people are
doing it and I don't really need it
wouldn't really be that beneficial I'm
just falling victim to sales tactics and
marketing but then the other thing that
I would say is think about the other
courses that you have invested in and
are there any of those that you could
finish that you could go back into or
that you still have access to that might
help you like it might not be Step One
Foundation but let's say it's a course
that you invested in you're now going to
take the time be serious and actually
finish it yeah which will then make you
money in some way and that income can
then be used to fund the next investment
the next course that you're going to
actually also finish and so maybe
there's of course you already have that
you've already bought that is plenty
enough
yeah and just you know be self-aware
like is this what I need am I becoming a
course connoisseur that person who's
like Paralyzed by Perfection so you just
keep like being the perfect student like
the lifelong learner but you're never
implementing I think it's important to
be honest with yourself I also think
that you know when we talked about like
looking at who the course creator what
is
sometimes they're maybe they're not
great marketers
but they're they've been doing this for
15 years and they're incredibly
successful and they've got the chops
like that matters and there are some
courses out there that frankly we know
are really really popular hundreds of
thousands of people have done them and
they're really pretty shitty there's no
other way to put it and there are
courses out there like maybe we've never
heard of that person but their course is
exceptional
and the content's exceptional and
they're just not maybe great at
marketing but they're really good at
teaching that type of content whether
you're like I'm thinking about a course
that I took on copywriting that was
probably one of the lowest price courses
everyone's going to ask for it now one
of the lowest price courses I've ever
taken and it was by someone nobody knows
their name eventually we asked that
person to become a a professor inside
our own Academy and one more thing I
want to say because I know a lot of you
who listen to build your tribe are also
students of marketing impact Academy
your members I got a message two days
ago from someone who's like I saw brand
deals 101 on your website I am an MIA
member should I invest in this and I
said no you should not because it's
included like if that course is sold
separately if you want to learn how to
get brand deals but if you're an MIA
member like the whole goal of creating
marketing impact Academy so that people
didn't keep having to buy course after
course after course and again it's not a
Shameless plug for Mia but like I know a
lot of you you who our members listen so
double check before you buy that next
course we're doing like stuff on AI
we're always creating new
mini courses short directly to the point
so that you can Implement take action
and I guess that's the last thing I
would say is if you don't have time to
take action Implement then you can
afford to invest in whatever that course
might be yeah what I would say is the
oftentimes the horse connoisseur as you
put it the person who keeps buying
courses and joining memberships and
hiring new coaches they're doing this
because it feels like progress totally
feels like they're making strides it
feels like they're one step closer to
that successful business when in reality
education and learning and reading and
watching these lessons and videos it's
not actually progress unless you're
implementing unless you're actually
taking out then it's not it's not going
to lead to anything it's just more
information in your brain which is great
but at the end of the day it's not
really doing anything for you or your
business and so I know it feels like
progress and I know it feels comfortable
and safe to to swipe the credit card by
another course and learn some more stuff
but if you want to be successful it's
not necessarily a matter of did I pick
the right course yes that can play a
role but it's more did you implement
what you learn in the course did you put
into practice
yeah dude mic drop don't drop that mic I
paid for it that's my mic but that you
just okay last thing I want to say no
they're gonna I swear it's the last
thing I swear I swear
if that's your hang up like I just keep
doing course after course like then
maybe don't buy another course like what
you might need is to just pay for an
accountability coach and you don't have
to have someone who's like an expert at
the course you just have someone who you
is really skilled at kicking your butt
and you just show up every week and
you're like your job is to kick my butt
and make sure I I do what I say I'm
gonna do hey thank you so much for
joining us on this episode of build your
tribe it was fun to be together here
with you in the in the south of France
in the same physical location thank you
so much for listening if you're watching
on YouTube don't forget to give us a
like and a subscribe even if you're if
you're subscribed on other podcast apps
we appreciate you for subscribing and
watching on YouTube as well because
that's a new territory that we're
venturing into and in the first comment
below the YouTube video you'll see a
pinned comment from us it's a great way
that we can connect with you and
interact because oftentimes when you're
just listening to the podcast it doesn't
feel like you're necessarily a part of
the community there's no one to really
talk to but on YouTube we're able to
actually have conversations in the
comments section so if you're watching
on YouTube go ahead and head to the
comments if you're not watching on
YouTube We would appreciate it if you
did but even if you're just watching or
listening on whatever podcast app you
prefer we appreciate you our goal is to
be brief to be bright to make it fun and
then be done we're done
[Music]
thank you